docs/ai_actions/install_ai_actions.md, before:

---
description: Install the AI Actions LTS update.
edition: lts-update
month_change: true
---

# Install AI Actions

AI Actions are available as an LTS update to [[= product_name =]] starting with version v4.6.12 or higher, regardless of its edition.
To use this feature you must first install the package.
You can then install and configure the service connectors or build your own ones.

## Install framework

Run the following command to install the package:

``` bash
composer require ibexa/connector-ai
```

This command adds the framework code, service handlers, Twig templates, and configurations required for using AI Actions.
It also modifies the permission system to account for the new functionality.

## Modify database schema

Create the `add_ai_actions.sql` file that contains the following code.

=== "MySQL"

    ``` sql
    [[= include_file('code_samples/ai_actions/config/mysql/add_ai_actions.sql', 0, None, '    ') =]]
    ```

=== "PostgreSQL"

    ``` sql
    [[= include_file('code_samples/ai_actions/config/postgresql/add_ai_actions.sql', 0, None, '    ') =]]
    ```

Run the following command, where `<database_name>` is the same name that you defined when you [installed [[= product_name =]]](../getting_started/install_ibexa_dxp.md#change-installation-parameters).

=== "MySQL"

    ```bash
    mysql -u <username> -p <password> <database_name> < add_ai_actions.sql
    ```

=== "PostgreSQL"

    ```bash
    psql <database_name> < add_ai_actions.sql
    ```

This command modifies the existing database schema by adding database configuration required for using AI Actions.

!!! note "Next steps"

    Once the framework is installed and configured, before you can start using AI Actions, you can configure access to [[= product_name_base =]]-made service connectors by following the instructions below, or [create your own](extend_ai_actions.md#create-custom-action-handler).

    Only then you can restart you application and start [working with the AI Actions feature]([[= user_doc =]]/ai_actions/work_with_ai_actions/).

## Configure access to OpenAI

Run the following command to install the service connector with the OpenAI service:

``` bash
composer require ibexa/connector-openai
```

Create an OpenAI account, [get an API key](https://help.openai.com/en/articles/4936850-where-do-i-find-my-openai-api-key), and make sure that you [set up a billing method](https://help.openai.com/en/articles/9038407-how-can-i-set-up-billing-for-my-account).

Then, in the root folder of your project, modify the `.env` file: find the `OPENAI_API_KEY` variable and replace a placeholder value with the API key that you got from the AI service.

```bash
###> ibexa/connector-openai ###
OPENAI_API_KEY=<your_api_key>
###< ibexa/connector-openai ###
```

### Install sample OpenAI action configurations (optional)

By installing a collection of sample AI action configurations you can quickly start using the feature.
You do it by following a standard [data migration](importing_data.md) procedure:

```bash
php bin/console ibexa:migrations:import vendor/ibexa/connector-openai/src/bundle/Resources/migrations/action_configurations.yaml
php bin/console ibexa:migrations:migrate
```

Based on these examples, which reflect the most common use cases, you can learn to configure your own AI actions with greater ease.

## Configure access to [[= product_name_connect =]]

First, get the credentials by contacting [Ibexa Support](https://support.ibexa.co).

### Create team

In [[= product_name_connect =]], set up the account, and [create a team]([[= connect_doc =]]/access_management/teams/#creating-teams).
Navigate to the team details page and note down the numerical value of the **Team id** variable.

Creating a team matters, because [scenarios]([[= connect_doc =]]/scenarios/creating_a_scenario/) that process data coming from your AI action are associated with a team.
This way, if your organization has more than one [[= product_name =]] project, each project can be linked to a different team and so can be scenarios used in those projects.

If specific users from the team are supposed to modify scenario settings, you must [assign the right roles]([[= connect_doc =]]/access_management/teams/#managing-teams) to them.

### Create token

Navigate to your [[= product_name_connect =]] user's profile, and on the **API ACCESS** tab, create a new token.
Select the following scopes to set permissions needed to enable the integration of platforms:

- `custom-property-structures:read`
- `custom-property-structures:write`
- `hooks:read`
- `hooks:write`
- `scenarios:read`
- `scenarios:write`
- `team-variables:read`
- `team-variables:write`
- `teams:write`
- `templates:read`
- `templates:write`
- `udts:read`
- `udts:write`

![Creating an API token](img/connect_api_token.png)

Copy the token code that appears on the tokens list, next to the label.

### Set up credentials

In the root folder of your project, modify the `.env` file.
Replace a placeholder value of the `IBEXA_CONNECT_TOKEN` variable with the token that you got from [[= product_name_connect =]] and provide a value of the `IBEXA_CONNECT_TEAM_ID` variable.

```bash
###> ibexa/connect ###
IBEXA_CONNECT_HOST=https://connect.ibexa.co
IBEXA_CONNECT_API_PATH=/api/v2/
# Token can be created in the user's profile in Ibexa Connect, under the 'API ACCESS' section.
IBEXA_CONNECT_TOKEN=<your_api_token>
# Use the URL below to read more on Ibexa Connect teams.
# https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/connect/en/latest/access_management/teams/
IBEXA_CONNECT_TEAM_ID=2
###< ibexa/connect ###
```

### Initiate integration

Initiate the models provided by the handler by issuing the following command:

```bash
php bin/console ibexa:connect:init-connect-ai <team_id> <language> <action handler identifiers>
```

For example:

```bash
php bin/console ibexa:connect:init-connect-ai 2 en connect-image-to-text connect-text-to-text
```

!!! note "Support for multiple [[= product_name_connect =]] languages"

    The [`language` attribute](https://developers.make.com/api-documentation/api-reference/templates#templates-1) determines the language in which template details such as module names will be displayed in [[= product_name_connect =]]'s UI.

### Customize templates 

Return to the [[= product_name_connect =]] dashboard and modify the **Template for connect...handler** [templates]([[= connect_doc =]]/scenarios/scenario_templates/) by defining the logic needed to process the data.

Once the templates are ready, you can build scenarios from them, either directly in [[= product_name_connect =]] or in [[[= product_name =]]'s user interface]([[= user_doc =]]/ai_actions/work_with_ai_actions/#create-new-ai-actions).

Commit message:

Mentioned custom properties for Ibexa Connect

docs/ai_actions/install_ai_actions.md, after:

---
description: Install the AI Actions LTS update.
edition: lts-update
month_change: true
---

# Install AI Actions

AI Actions are available as an LTS update to [[= product_name =]] starting with version v4.6.12 or higher, regardless of its edition.
To use this feature you must first install the package.
You can then install and configure the service connectors or build your own ones.

## Install framework

Run the following command to install the package:

``` bash
composer require ibexa/connector-ai
```

This command adds the framework code, service handlers, Twig templates, and configurations required for using AI Actions.
It also modifies the permission system to account for the new functionality.

## Modify database schema

Create the `add_ai_actions.sql` file that contains the following code.

=== "MySQL"

    ``` sql
    [[= include_file('code_samples/ai_actions/config/mysql/add_ai_actions.sql', 0, None, '    ') =]]
    ```

=== "PostgreSQL"

    ``` sql
    [[= include_file('code_samples/ai_actions/config/postgresql/add_ai_actions.sql', 0, None, '    ') =]]
    ```

Run the following command, where `<database_name>` is the same name that you defined when you [installed [[= product_name =]]](../getting_started/install_ibexa_dxp.md#change-installation-parameters).

=== "MySQL"

    ```bash
    mysql -u <username> -p <password> <database_name> < add_ai_actions.sql
    ```

=== "PostgreSQL"

    ```bash
    psql <database_name> < add_ai_actions.sql
    ```

This command modifies the existing database schema by adding database configuration required for using AI Actions.

!!! note "Next steps"

    Once the framework is installed and configured, before you can start using AI Actions, you can configure access to [[= product_name_base =]]-made service connectors by following the instructions below, or [create your own](extend_ai_actions.md#create-custom-action-handler).

    Only then you can restart you application and start [working with the AI Actions feature]([[= user_doc =]]/ai_actions/work_with_ai_actions/).

## Configure access to OpenAI

Run the following command to install the service connector with the OpenAI service:

``` bash
composer require ibexa/connector-openai
```

Create an OpenAI account, [get an API key](https://help.openai.com/en/articles/4936850-where-do-i-find-my-openai-api-key), and make sure that you [set up a billing method](https://help.openai.com/en/articles/9038407-how-can-i-set-up-billing-for-my-account).

Then, in the root folder of your project, modify the `.env` file: find the `OPENAI_API_KEY` variable and replace a placeholder value with the API key that you got from the AI service.

```bash
###> ibexa/connector-openai ###
OPENAI_API_KEY=<your_api_key>
###< ibexa/connector-openai ###
```

### Install sample OpenAI action configurations (optional)

By installing a collection of sample AI action configurations you can quickly start using the feature.
You do it by following a standard [data migration](importing_data.md) procedure:

```bash
php bin/console ibexa:migrations:import vendor/ibexa/connector-openai/src/bundle/Resources/migrations/action_configurations.yaml
php bin/console ibexa:migrations:migrate
```

Based on these examples, which reflect the most common use cases, you can learn to configure your own AI actions with greater ease.

## Configure access to [[= product_name_connect =]]

First, get the credentials by contacting [Ibexa Support](https://support.ibexa.co).

### Create team

In [[= product_name_connect =]], set up the account, and [create a team]([[= connect_doc =]]/access_management/teams/#creating-teams).
Navigate to the team details page and note down the numerical value of the **Team id** variable.

Creating a team matters, because [scenarios]([[= connect_doc =]]/scenarios/creating_a_scenario/) that process data coming from your AI action are associated with a team.
This way, if your organization has more than one [[= product_name =]] project, each project can be linked to a different team and so can be scenarios used in those projects.

If specific users from the team are supposed to modify scenario settings, you must [assign the right roles]([[= connect_doc =]]/access_management/teams/#managing-teams) to them.

### Create token

Navigate to your [[= product_name_connect =]] user's profile, and on the **API ACCESS** tab, create a new token.
Select the following scopes to set permissions needed to enable the integration of platforms:

- `custom-property-structures:read`
- `custom-property-structures:write`
- `hooks:read`
- `hooks:write`
- `scenarios:read`
- `scenarios:write`
- `team-variables:read`
- `team-variables:write`
- `teams:write`
- `templates:read`
- `templates:write`
- `udts:read`
- `udts:write`

![Creating an API token](img/connect_api_token.png)

Copy the token code that appears on the tokens list, next to the label.

### Set up credentials

In the root folder of your project, modify the `.env` file.
Replace a placeholder value of the `IBEXA_CONNECT_TOKEN` variable with the token that you got from [[= product_name_connect =]] and provide a value of the `IBEXA_CONNECT_TEAM_ID` variable.

```bash
###> ibexa/connect ###
IBEXA_CONNECT_HOST=https://connect.ibexa.co
IBEXA_CONNECT_API_PATH=/api/v2/
# Token can be created in the user's profile in Ibexa Connect, under the 'API ACCESS' section.
IBEXA_CONNECT_TOKEN=<your_api_token>
# Use the URL below to read more on Ibexa Connect teams.
# https://doc.ibexa.co/projects/connect/en/latest/access_management/teams/
IBEXA_CONNECT_TEAM_ID=2
###< ibexa/connect ###
```

### Initiate integration

Initiate the models provided by the handler by issuing the following command:

```bash
php bin/console ibexa:connect:init-connect-ai <team_id> <language> <action handler identifiers>
```

For example:

```bash
php bin/console ibexa:connect:init-connect-ai 2 en connect-image-to-text connect-text-to-text
```

!!! note "Support for multiple [[= product_name_connect =]] languages"

    The [`language` attribute](https://developers.make.com/api-documentation/api-reference/templates#templates-1) determines the language in which template details such as module names will be displayed in [[= product_name_connect =]]'s UI.

Then, create the `Ibexa AI handler` custom property in [[= product_name_connect =]] to store the list of available action handlers for this integration.
You can do it by running the following command:

``` bash
php bin/console ibexa:connect:init-custom-property-structures <organization-id> <action handler identifiers>
```

For example:

``` bash
php bin/console ibexa:connect:init-custom-property-structures 4 connect-image-to-text connect-text-to-text
```

The `Ibexa AI handler` property attaches to a Scenario to store information about the action handler associated with it.
When creating a new [[= product_name_connect =]]-based AI action, the back office of [[= product_name =]] shows only the existing Scenarios that work with selected action handler.

### Customize templates 

Return to the [[= product_name_connect =]] dashboard and modify the **Template for connect...handler** [templates]([[= connect_doc =]]/scenarios/scenario_templates/) by defining the logic needed to process the data.

Once the templates are ready, you can build scenarios from them, either directly in [[= product_name_connect =]] or in [[[= product_name =]]'s user interface]([[= user_doc =]]/ai_actions/work_with_ai_actions/#create-new-ai-actions).
