docs/ibexa_products/editions.md, before:

---
description: Learn more about various Ibexa DXP editions' features to help yourself choose the right one for your project.
page_type: landing_page
---

# [[= product_name =]] editions

Three [[= product_name =]] product editions are available to help you accelerate your digital transformation at the speed and cost that work best for you.

[[= cards([
    "ibexa_products/ibexa_headless",
    "ibexa_products/ibexa_experience",
    "ibexa_products/ibexa_commerce",
], columns=3) =]]

## Feature comparison

Compare all features available in [[= product_name_headless =]], [[= product_name_exp =]], and [[= product_name_com =]] to help you choose the right products for your needs:

| Feature | [[= product_name_headless =]] | [[= product_name_exp =]] | [[= product_name_com =]] |
|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| [Content model](content_model.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [User management](user_management_guide.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Focus Mode]([[= user_doc =]]/getting_started/discover_ui/#focus-mode) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Image editor]([[= user_doc =]]/image_management/edit_images/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Content scheduler]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/schedule_publishing/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [SEO]([[= user_doc =]]/search_engine_optimization/seo/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Content translation]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/translate_content/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Search]([[= user_doc =]]/search/search_for_content/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Editorial workflow]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/workflow_management/editorial_workflow/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Digital Asset Management]([[= user_doc =]]/dam/ibexa_dam/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Product Information Management]([[= user_doc =]]/pim/pim/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Personalization](personalization_guide.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Migrations](managing_migrations.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [[[= product_name_connect =]]]([[= connect_doc =]]) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [OAuth client](oauth_client.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [OAuth Server](oauth_server.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Site Factory](site_factory.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Customizable Dashboard]([[= user_doc =]]/getting_started/dashboard/work_with_dashboard/#customize-dashboard) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Page Builder](page_builder_guide.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Form Builder](form_builder_guide.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Scheduler tab]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/schedule_publishing/#scheduler-tab) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Content Scheduler block]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/schedule_publishing/#content-scheduler-block) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Corporate account management]([[= user_doc =]]/customer_management/manage_customers/) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Customer Portal](customer_portal_guide.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Segments](segments_admin_panel.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Recent activity](recent_activity.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [[[= product_name_engage =]] add-on]([[= user_doc =]]/ibexa_engage/ibexa_engage/) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Customer Data Platform (CDP) add-on](cdp_guide.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Order management](order_management.md) |  |  | &#10004; |
| [Payment management](payment.md) |  |  | &#10004; |
| [Shipping management](shipping_management.md) |  |  | &#10004; |
| [Cart](cart.md) |  |  | &#10004; |
| [Checkout](checkout.md) |  |  | &#10004; |
| [Storefront](storefront.md) |  |  | &#10004; |
| [Transactional emails](transactional_emails.md) |  |  | &#10004; |

## LTS Updates

LTS Updates are opt-in packages that bring additional features to the [LTS releases](release_process_and_roadmap.md#long-term-support-releases) that they enhance.
The features brought by LTS Updates become standard parts of the next LTS release.

| Feature | [[= product_name_headless =]] | [[= product_name_exp =]] | [[= product_name_com =]] |
|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| [AI Actions](ai_actions_guide.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Date and time attribute type](date_and_time.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |

Commit message:

Described existing LTS updates as built-in into product (#2752)
* Described existing LTS updates as built-in into product

* Rebuild

* Fixed menu entry

* Added list of previous LTS updates

* Update docs/ibexa_products/editions.md

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: julitafalcondusza <117284672+julitafalcondusza@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: julitafalcondusza <117284672+julitafalcondusza@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/ibexa_products/editions.md, after:

---
description: Learn more about various Ibexa DXP editions' features to help yourself choose the right one for your project.
page_type: landing_page
---

# [[= product_name =]] editions

Three [[= product_name =]] product editions are available to help you accelerate your digital transformation at the speed and cost that work best for you.

[[= cards([
    "ibexa_products/ibexa_headless",
    "ibexa_products/ibexa_experience",
    "ibexa_products/ibexa_commerce",
], columns=3) =]]

## Feature comparison

Compare all features available in [[= product_name_headless =]], [[= product_name_exp =]], and [[= product_name_com =]] to help you choose the right products for your needs:

| Feature | [[= product_name_headless =]] | [[= product_name_exp =]] | [[= product_name_com =]] |
|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|
| [Content model](content_model.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [AI Actions](ai_actions_guide.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [User management](user_management_guide.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Focus Mode]([[= user_doc =]]/getting_started/discover_ui/#focus-mode) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Image editor]([[= user_doc =]]/image_management/edit_images/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Content scheduler]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/schedule_publishing/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [SEO]([[= user_doc =]]/search_engine_optimization/seo/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Content translation]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/translate_content/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Search]([[= user_doc =]]/search/search_for_content/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Editorial workflow]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/workflow_management/editorial_workflow/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Digital Asset Management]([[= user_doc =]]/dam/ibexa_dam/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Product Information Management]([[= user_doc =]]/pim/pim/) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Date and time attribute type](date_and_time.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Personalization](personalization_guide.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Migrations](managing_migrations.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [[[= product_name_connect =]]]([[= connect_doc =]]) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [OAuth client](oauth_client.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [OAuth Server](oauth_server.md) | &#10004; | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Site Factory](site_factory.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Customizable Dashboard]([[= user_doc =]]/getting_started/dashboard/work_with_dashboard/#customize-dashboard) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Page Builder](page_builder_guide.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Form Builder](form_builder_guide.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Scheduler tab]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/schedule_publishing/#scheduler-tab) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Content Scheduler block]([[= user_doc =]]/content_management/schedule_publishing/#content-scheduler-block) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Corporate account management]([[= user_doc =]]/customer_management/manage_customers/) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Customer Portal](customer_portal_guide.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Segments](segments_admin_panel.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Recent activity](recent_activity.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [[[= product_name_engage =]] add-on]([[= user_doc =]]/ibexa_engage/ibexa_engage/) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Customer Data Platform (CDP) add-on](cdp_guide.md) |  | &#10004; | &#10004; |
| [Order management](order_management.md) |  |  | &#10004; |
| [Payment management](payment.md) |  |  | &#10004; |
| [Shipping management](shipping_management.md) |  |  | &#10004; |
| [Cart](cart.md) |  |  | &#10004; |
| [Checkout](checkout.md) |  |  | &#10004; |
| [Storefront](storefront.md) |  |  | &#10004; |
| [Transactional emails](transactional_emails.md) |  |  | &#10004; |

## LTS Updates

LTS Updates are opt-in packages that bring additional features to the [LTS releases](release_process_and_roadmap.md#long-term-support-releases) that they enhance.
The features brought by LTS Updates become standard parts of the next LTS release.

There aren't any LTS Updates available for the v5 release yet.
The ones released for 4.6 LTS are included out of the box in [[= product_name =]] 5.0 LTS:

- [AI Actions](ai_actions_guide.md)
- [Date and time attribute type](date_and_time.md)


<!-- | Feature | [[= product_name_headless =]] | [[= product_name_exp =]] | [[= product_name_com =]] |
|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------|-----------------| -->
